CRACKED DOWN ON A MAJOR HEDGE
FUND TODAY, SECURING A GUILTY
PLEA ON INSIDER TRADING CHARGES
AND A TOTAL PENALTY OF $1.8
BILLION.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS OFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, EGYPT'S
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMED MORSI
APPEARED IN COURT, CHARGED WITH
INCITING MURDER AND VIOLENCE,
BUT DEFIANTLY INSISTED HE IS
STILL THE COUNTRY'S LEGITIMATE
LEADER.
AND HARI SREENIVASAN TRACKS A
NEW YORK CITY FAMILY TRYING TO
GET BY ON ONE PARENT'S EIGHT-
DOLLAR-AN-HOUR WAGE.
>> IT'S EASY LOOKING, OH,
YEAH, WITH THAT MONEY I'LL
BE ABLE TO -- I WON SEE
ANYONE, I CHALLENGE YOU, DO
IT.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: BILLIONAIRE INVESTOR
STEVEN COHEN AND HIS HIGH-
PROFILE HEDGE FUND AGREED TODAY
TO A RECORD PLEA DEAL FOR
INSIDER TRADING.
S.A.C CAPITAL ADVISORS WILL
ADMIT TO CRIMINAL FRAUD AND PAY
$1.8 BILLION IN FINES AND
FORFEITURES.
FOR FEDERAL PROSECUTORS IN NEW
YORK, IT'S THE BIGGEST CATCH YET
IN A LONG-RUNNING INVESTIGATION.
>> SOMETIMES INSTITUTES NEED
TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE TOO.
NO INSTITUTION SHOULD REST
EASY IN THE BELIEF THAT IT
IS TOO BIG TO JAIL.
THAT IS A MORAL HAZARD THAT
A JUST SOCIETY CAN ILL
AFFORD.
>> Ifill: COHEN WAS NOT CHARGED
WITH ANY CRIMINAL VIOLATION, BUT
WILL NO LONGER MANAGE MONEY FOR
ANYONE BUT HIMSELF.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE DETAILS
OF THE CASE, RIGHT AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
THE DEPOSED PRESIDENT OF EGYPT,
MOHAMMED MORSI, WENT ON TRIAL
TODAY IN CAIRO, AND QUICKLY
CONDEMNED THE PROCEEDINGS.
HE INSISTED HE'S STILL EGYPT'S
RIGHTFUL LEADER, AND HE REJECTED
MILITARY RULE.
THE TRIAL THEN ADJOURNED UNTIL
JANUARY.
WE'LL HEAR FROM A REPORTER
COVERING THE TRIAL LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
ELSEWHERE IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
TRAVELED TO SAUDI ARABIA, IN A
BID TO MEND FRAYED
RELATIONS WITH A LONGTIME ALLY.
THEY'VE BEEN STRAINED BY
DIFFERENCES OVER SYRIA, EGYPT
AND IRAN.
KERRY MET WITH SAUDI FOREIGN
MINISTER PRINCE SAUD AL-FAISAL
AFTER TALKS WITKINGH  ABDULLAH.
HE SAID SAUDI ARABIA IS THE
REGION'S LINCHPIN.
>> IF WE CAN GET STABILITY
AND ULTIMATELY HOPEFULLY
PEACE IN I PLACE LIKE SYRIA,
THE POSSIBILITIES ARE
ENDLESS.
THE SAUDIS ARE VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT TO ALL OF THESE
THINGS.
THE SAUDIS ARE REALLY THE
SORT OF SENIOR PLAYER, IF
YOU WILL, WITHIN THE ARAB
WORLD TOGETHER WITH EGYPT.
EGYPT IS IN MORE OF A
TRANSITION.
SO SAUDI ARABIA'S ROLE IS
THAT MUCH MORE IMPORTANT.
>> THAT ASSAD MUST STEP DOWN
THAT IRAN CANNOT BE ALLOWED
TO OBTAIN A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
PROTESTORS IN IRAN STAGED
ONE OF THE LARGEST
ANTI-AMERICAN RALLIES IN
YEARS.
IT MARKS THE ANNIVERSARY OF
THE 1979 TAKEOVER OF THE
U.S. EMBASSY IN TEHRAN.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
DEMONSTRATORS PACKED THE
STREETS IN A SHOW OF
OPPOSITION TO PRESIDENT
ROUHANI RECENT OPEN TO THE
U.S.
THEY STOMPED ON THE AMERICAN
FLAG AND CARRIED
ANTI-AMERICAN SIGNS.
>> THANK GOD, THE RALLY IS
MORE SPIRITED THAN LAST
YEAR.
SOME PEOPLE SAID LET'S NOT
CHANT DEATH TO AMERICA THIS
YEAR.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR US.
BUT THE LEADER HAS SAID THAT
IT IS A GOOD THING FOR US TO
CHANT DEATH TO AMERICA.
THE WORLD MUST SEE THIS.
>> MEANWHILE TALKS OVER
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM ARE
SET TO RESUME THURSDAY IN
GENEVA.
THE WORLD BANK IS OUT WITH A
STUDY THAT FINDS CLEANER COOKING
STOVES COULD SAVE A MILLION
LIVES A YEAR, AND SLOW GLOBAL
WARMING.
THE AGENCY SAYS MANY OF THE
DEATHS ARE PEOPLE IN DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES WHO COOK INDOORS WITH
WOOD OR COAL AND BREATHE IN
SMOKE.
IT SAYS THE SOLUTION LIES IN
STOVES THAT BURN LESS FUEL-- OR
CLEANER FUEL-- AND COST JUST A
FEW DOLLARS EACH.
A FEDERAL TRIAL BEGAN IN
MILWAUKEE TODAY ON WISCONSIN'S
VOTER I.D. LAW.
IT'S THE LATEST FLASHPOINT IN A
NATIONWIDE BATTLE OVER SUCH
MEASURES.
THE WISCONSIN LAW REQUIRES A
DRIVER'S LICENSE OR OTHER PHOTO
I.D. TO VOTE.
REPUBLICANS SAY IT TARGETS
FRAUD.
DEMOCRATS ARGUE THE LAW
DISCRIMINATES BECAUSE THE POOR
AND MINORITIES ARE LESS LIKELY
TO HAVE SUCH I.D.s.
WALL STREET OPENED THE WEEK WITH
A RELATIVELY CALM DAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 23 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,639.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 14 POINTS. TO
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR, THE
LARGEST PENALTY EVER FOR INSIDER
TRADING ON WALL STREET.
EGYPT'S OUSTED PRESIDENT MORSI'S
DEFIANT DAY IN COURT.
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO SUPPORT A
FAMILY OF SEVEN ON $8 AN HOUR.
TAXING MARIJUANA IN COLORADO AND
OTHER INITIATIVES ON THE BALLOT
TOMORROW.
>> PLUS A TROV OF 1500
PAINTINGS LOOTED BY THE
NAZIS FOUND IN A MUNICH
APARTMENT.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S INSIDER
TRADING PLEA BY THE HEDGE FUND,
S.A.C. CAPITAL ADVISERS, WAS
NOTABLE NOT JUST FOR ITS
FINANCIAL PENALTY BUT ALSO FOR
THE PROSECUTORS' PURSUIT OF
CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST THE
FIRM.
JEFFREY BROWN TAKES A DEEPER
LOOK AT THE VIOLATIONS IN
QUESTION AND WHAT THE CASE MAY
SUGGEST ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT'S
BROADER INVESTIGATIONS INTO WALL
SEET TRPRACTICES.
>> Brown: STEVEN COHEN IS NOT
JUST ANY TRADER.
HE WAS ONE OF THE STREET'S BEST
KNOWN TRADERS.
AND HIS FIRM WAS ONE OF THE MORE
SUCCESSFUL, WITH A RECORD OF
RETURNING 25% A YEAR TO
INVESTORS.
SHEELAH KOLHATKAR, A NATIONAL
CORRESPONDENT AT BLOOMBERG
BUSINESSWEEK HAS BEEN
CHRONICLING THIS CASE AND THE
WORLD OF HEDGE FUNDS.
SHE WAS AT THE PRESS CONFERENCE
TODAY AND JOINS ME NOW.
BOTH STEVE COHEN WERE ENGAGING
IN WRONGDOING
DIDN'T HAVE THE EVIDENCE THEY
NEEDED.
SETTLEMENT OF THE CHARGES
AGAINST THE COMPANY DOES NOT
CREATE ANY SORT OF IMMUNITY
FOR COHEN HIMSELF OR ANY
INDIVIDUAx3
AND I THINK THE U.S.
ATTORNEY, HE MIGHT HAVE
MENTIONED THAT FOUR
DIFFERENT TIMES DURING A 40
MINUTE PRESS CONFERENCE.
SO THEY ARE STILL LOOKING
INTO HIM.
THERE IS ALSO A CIVIL CASE
WITH THE SEC WHICH ALSO
COULD CARRY A SIGNIFICANT
BITE.
THE SEC IS LOOKING TO BAR
STEPHEN COHEN FROM THE
SECURITIES INDUSTRY FOR
LIFE.
THIS IS ALMOST A HARSHEST
PENALTY THE SEC CAN DISH OUT
TO ANYONE.
THAT HAS YET TO BE RESOLVED.
THAT IS LIKELY TO BE A MAJOR
BLOW FOR SOMEONE WHO THOUGHT
OF HIMSELF AND WAS WIDELY
SEEN AS THE GREATEST TRADE
NEVER HIS GENERATION.
>> SHEELAH KOLHATKAR OF
BUSINESS WEEK, THANKS VERY
MUCH.
>> EGYPT'S FIRST
DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
PRESIDENT NOW ON TRIAL FOR
>> Ifill: EGYPT'S FIRST
DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
PRESIDENT, NOW ON TRIAL FOR
INCITING MURDER WAS DEFIANT
DURING HIS BRIEF FIRST DAY IN
COURT.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT KWAME
HOLMAN BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
WITH MOHAMMED MORSI ARRIVAL
FOR HIS TRIAL SHOWN ON STATE
TELEVISION MARKS THE FIRST
TIME HE HAS BEEN SEEN
PUBLICLY SINCE THE MILITARY
FORCED HIM FROM POWER IN
JULY.
THE TROIL IS BEING HELD AT
THIS HIGHLY FORTIFIED POLICE
ACADEMY COMPOUND.
BROADCASTER KOS NOT AIR
STATEMENTS FROM INSIDE THE
COURTROOM BUT ONE OF MORSI'S
LAUERS SAID HE TOOK A
DEFIANT STAND.
>> WHEN HE CAME INTO THE
HALL THE LAWYERS BEGAN
CHANTING IN SUPPORT OF HIM.
THE PRESIDENT SAID WHEN HE
CAME IN SIT 32-YEAR-OLD
MORSIES WITH KEPT IN A
COURTROOM HOLDING CELL ALONG
WITH 14 CODEFENDANTS, TOP
MEMBERS OF HIS MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
THEY'RE ACCUSED OF
INSIGHTING THIS VIOLENCE IN
CAIRO LAST DECEMBER AGAINST
OPPONENTS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
TEN PEOPLE DIED IN THE
CLASHES.
MORSI SUPPORTERS SAY THE
CASE IS TRUMPED UP.
HUNDREDS OF THEM RALLIED
OUTSIDE THE TRIAL SITE TODAY.
>> OF COURSE THIS IS A SHAM
TRIAL.
THEY TRICKED PEOPLE AND TOLD
THEM IT IS A REAL TRIAL.
WE WANT A PUBLIC TRIAL SO WE
CAN KNOW THE TRUTH.
>> Reporter: RIOT POLICE
LATER FIRED TEAR GAS TO
DISPERSE THE CROWDS.
THE TRIAL OPENED A DAYFTE AR
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY WAS IN CAIRO.
THE U.S. HAS SUSPENDED SOME
AID TO EGYPT OVER MORSI'S
OUSTER BUT KERRY SOUNDED
CONCILIATORY.
>> WE WANT TO HELP, WE'RE
PREPARED TO DO SO.
AND THE WAY IT WILL UNFOLD
IS THE DEMOCRACY IS
REKINDLED IN ITS STRENGTH.
AND AS THE PEOPLE OF EGYPT
MAKE THEIR CHOICES IN THE
FUTURE.
I'M CONFIDENT THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA WILL
DO EVEN MORE.
>> THE MORSI TRIAL NOW HAS
ADJOURNED UNTIL JANUARY 8th
TO GIVE LAWYERS TIME TO
REVIEW DOCUMENTS.
THE DEPOSED PRESIDENT COULD
FACE THE DEATH PENALTY IF
HE'S CONVICTED.
>> NANCYIOUSEV IS COVERING
THE TRIAL FOR McCLATCHY
NEWSPAPERS.
I SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT
TIME AGO.
>> SO NANCY NOUSSEF
APPARENTLY MOHAMMED MORSI-- SAID
EVERYTHING INCLUDING WHAT
UNIFORM WE WEAR TO COURT
TODAY.
WHAT HAPPENED IN THAT
COURTROOM?
>> IT WAS ACTUALLY QUITE
DRAMATIC.
IT WAS A LOT OF YELLING BY
MOHAMMED MORSI AND THE SIX
OTHER DEFENDANTS IN THE CASE
WITH THEM.
EVERY TIME THE JUDGE TRIED
TO PROCEED WITH THE CASE
THEY WOULD YELL THAT THE
COURTROOM AND THE TRIAL WAS
A AS FAR AS.
MOHAMMED MORSI REPEATEDLY
SAID THAT HE WAS A PRESIDENT
AND CALLED THE PROCESS
INVALID.
WHEN HE WALKED IN, ONE OF
THE JOURNALISTS YELLED
EXECUTION, GOD WILLING TO
HIM AND THERE WAS EVEN
FIGHTS THAT BROKE OUT
BETWEEN THE JOURNALIST AND
SOME OF THE MORSI LAWYERS
AND THOSE OF HIS
CODEFENDANTS.
AND SO THERE WAS SO MUCH
CHAOS AND DRAMA THAT AT THE
END OF THE DAY THE JUDGE
DETERMINED THAT THE CASE
COULDN'T PROCEED.
AND IT WAS ADJOURNED UNTIL
JANUARY 8th.
>> WAS THE POINT OF MOHAMMED
MORSI'S PROTEST TO SAY THAT
THEY DIDN'T EVEN HAVE THE
RIGHT TO BE TRYING HIM
BECAUSE HE STILL IS THE
LEGITIMATE PRESIDENT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
HE REALLY, WE HADN'T SEEN
MOHAMMED MORSI SINCE JULY
2nd THE DAY BEFORE HE WAS
OUSTED BY THE MILITARY.
AND HE REALLY PICKED OFF
EXACTLY WHERE HE LEFT OFF IN
THAT SPEECH SAYING THAT HE
WAS THE PRESIDENT.
HIS LAWYER SAID THAT IF THEY
WANTED TO REMOVE THE
PRESIDENT THAT THERE WAS A
CONSTITUTIONAL PROCESS TO DO
THAT, SUGGESTING THAT THE
COURT SESSION WAS, IN FACT,
ILLEGAL.
AND ESSENTIALLY TRIED TO
CARRY HIMSELF AS THE
PRESIDENT, EVEN AS
CODEFENDANTS TRIED TO TREAT
HIM STILL AS PRESIDENT.
THE FACT THAT HE WAS WEARING
A SUIT WHEN HE WALKED IN.
HE SMILED AND GAVE A WAVE
THAT HAS BECOME POPULAR
AMONG THE ISLAMISTS.
AND HIS FELLOW CODEFENDANTS
LET HIM TAKE THE LEAD.
AND SO THERE WAS AN EFFORT
IN THAT COURTROOM TO REALLY
STATE AND SHOW THE POSITION
OF MORSI AND HIS SUPPORTERS
THAT THE PROCESS IS INVALID
AND THAT HE REMAINS THE
PRESIDENT.
>> WHAT IS THE STATE NOW OF
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD,
MOHAMMED MORSI'S PARTY?
>> IT'S INTERESTING.
WHAT WE SAW IN THE COURTROOM
REALLY REFLECTED WHATS HAD
BEEN HAPPENING OUTSIDE THE
COURTROOM.
THE ENTIRE LEADERSHIP OF THE
VERY ESSENTIALIZED
ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN
ARRESTED AND BECAUSE OF THAT,
THE ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN
QUITE FRACTURED WHERE THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD COULD
ONCE GET HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE TO THE
STREET TODAY ONLY MANAGED TO
GET A FEW THOUSAND.
AND ONE COULD REALLY FEEL
THE AN VENCE OF THAT
LEADERSHIP AS THEY TRIED TO
GALVANIZE SUPPORT FOR
MOHAMMED MORSI AND HIS FIRST
APPEARANCE IN COURT.
AT THE SAME TIME, ONE COULD
ALSO FEEL THE FEAR THAT THE
MILITARY FELT ABOUT THE
BROTHERHOOD AND THEIR
ABILITY TO CREATE
INSTABILITY IN THE STATE.
THE FACT THAT THIS TRIAL IS
NOT BROADCAST LIVE, THAT
JOURNALISTS WHO WERE ALLOWED
IN COULD NOT BRING CAMERAS
OR TELEPHONES.
AND THAT THE ONLY IMAGES
CAME OUT LATER THROUGH STATE
TELEVISION.
THE FEAR THAT ITS
BROTHERHOOD COULD RISE UP
AND CAUSE INSTABILITY WAS
CERTAINLY FELT AND REFLECTED
IN THE MILITARY'S DECISION
TO NOT ALLOW PEOPLE TO EVEN
SEE MORSI BEING HELD BY THE
NEW GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: SO IF THEY WERE
UNABLE TO EVEN GET THIS
TRIAL STARTED TODAY, WHAT
IS-- AND PUT OFF UNTIL
JANUARY, WHAT IS EXPECTED TO
CHANGE THAT WILL ALLOW THIS
TO GET UNDER WAY?
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN IS WE'LL SEE
MORE RESTRICTIONS PUT ON
THOSE DEFENDANTS, SUCH THAT
THEY CAN'T SPEAK SO THAT THE
JUDGE ALLOWED THEM TO SPEAK.
THERE MAY BE EFFORTS TO
CREATE SOME SORT OF LEGAL
PROCESS SUCH THAT THEY'RE
NOT REQUIRED TO SPEAK AS
MUCH.
BECAUSE EVERY TIME THEY WERE
ASKED TO SPEAK, TO ANSWER
THINGS LIKE THEIR NAME AND
THE CHARGES WE PUT BEFORE
THEM, THEY USED IT AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO STATE THEIR
POLITICAL POSITIONS.
SO MY GUESS IS WE WILL SEE
MORE RESTRICTIONS ON THAT
FRONT.
IT WAS QUITE A CONTRAST FROM
WHEN HOSNI MUBARAK, MORSI'S
PREDECESSOR WAS IN JACHL HE
WAS QUITE QUIET AND COOL.
AND SO THE OUTBURSTS WERE
UNUSUAL FOR THESE, WHAT'S
BECOME RELATIVELY FREQUENT
TRIALS OF FORMER PRESIDENTS.
SO MY GUESS IS WE'LL SEE
SOME ADJUSTMENTS IN TERMS OF
THEIR ABILITY TO SPEAK IN
COURT OR BE ADDRESSED BY THE
COURT IN FUTURE SESSIONS.
>> Ifill: NANCY YOUSSEF
REPORTING FROM CAIRO FOR
McCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS, THANKS
SO MUCH FOR HELPING US OUT.
>> THANKS, GWEF.
>> WE MENTIONED EARLIER THAT
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY HAS VITTED BOTH EGYPT
AND SAUDI A RAIN WHY IN
RECENT DAYS TO WORK ON U.S.
RELATIONS WITH BOTH
COUNTRIES.
NEWSHOUR MARGARET WARNER
JOINS ME NOW FOR MORE ON
THIS LATEST DIPLOMATIC
EFFORTS.
MARGARET, WELCOME AGAIN.
IT'S INTERESTING TO ME THAT
JOHN KERRY WOULD HAPPEN TO
BE IN EGYPT ON THE SAME DAY
THAT MOHAMMED MORSI COMES
OUT OF SECLUSION, OUT OF
JAIL TO GO ON TRIAL.
COINCIDENCE?
>> WELL, THIS WAS THE DAY
BEFORE.
NO, IT WAS VERY MUCH AWKWARD
TIMING.
THE TIMING OF THE TRIP WAS
DICTATED BY WHAT HE IS DOING
ON THE BACK TRIP.
BUT THEY WERESY VERY AWARE 9
AWKWARDNESS OF THIS TIMING
AND USUALLY HIS TRIP WAS NOT
ANNOUNCED.
HIS VISIT WAS NOT ANNOUNCED.
NOW USUALLY THAT ONLY
HAPPENING WHEN YOU GO INTO A
REALLY DANGEROUS PLACE LIKE
IRAQ OR AFGHANISTAN.
AND I'M TOLD IT REFLECTED
THE SENSITIVITY ABOUT THE
TIMING, THE AWARENESS OF THE
SORT OF DIFFICULT SECURITY
SITUATION IN EGYPT.
AND ALSO THE ANTI-AMERICAN
FEELING.
SO THAT SAID, THEY REALLY
THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT HE WOULD
SAY.
YOU SAW YESTERDAY IN HIS
PRESS CONFERENCE WITH THE
FOREIGNINIS MTER, HE SAID WE
REALLY THINK EGYPT IS ON
THIS ROAD MAP TO RESTORING
CIVILIAN DEMOCRACY.
HE WAS VERY ENCOVERAGED
ABOUT THAT.
AND HE SAID WE CERTAINLY
EXPECT THAT THE CONSTITUTION
WILL INCLUDE, WILL INSURANCE
ALL EGYPTIANS QUOTE, UNQUOTE,
ACCESS TO FULL AND FAIR
TRIALS AND TRANS PARENT ONES
AND DUE PROCESS BUT THAT WAS
AS FAR AS HE WENT.
>> Ifill: THERE HAS BEEN
SOME AWKWARDNESS BECAUSE THE
U6789 IS HAS NOT CONCEDED
THAT A COUP ACTUALLY
HAPPENED IN EGYPT.
WAS ANY OF THAT ON DISPLAY
OR WAS THAT SOMETHING THEY
WERE TIPTOEING AROUND.
>> WHETHER TO CALL IT A COUP
OR NOT, THIS MILITARY
INSTALLED GOVERNMENT WAS
GLAD THAT THE ADMINISTRATION
DIDN'T DO THAT.
BUT AGAIN YOU SAW SECRETARY
KERRY WALKING THIS REALLY
FINE LINE.
BECAUSE NOW A LOT OF
EGYPTIANS ARE MAD AT THE U..
FOR NOT ENDORSING THE COUP,
WHAT WAS CLEARLY A COUP.
SO AGAIN YOU SAW SECRETARY
KERRY BASICALLY SAYING YOU
KNOW, WE APPLAUD THEM BEING
ON THE RIGHT TRACK, THE
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS ACTUALLY
TOLD ME AFTERWARDS THEY
CONSIDERED IT VERY POSITIVE
BECAUSE AT LEAST IT SHOWED
THE U.S. WAS NOW READY TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS
RELATIONSHIP DESPITE THE
FACT THAT IT'S NOT A
CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT.
BUT FOR THE U.S. IT'S A MORE
MIXED PICTURE.
AND KERRY HAD TO SIGNAL THAT
ABOUT WHEN AND IF THE
PARTIAL AID SUSPENSION WILL
BE RESTORED.
>> Ifill: SPEAKING OF
AWKWARDNESS, LET'S MOVE TO
SAUDI ARABIA WHERE-- A LONG
TIME PARTNER OF THE UNITED
STATES IN THE REGION, WHERE
HE WAS ALSO A FORCE-- FORCED
TO WALK A VERY THIN PERILOUS
LINE, DIPLOMATICALLY.
>> YES.
BECAUSE UNITED STATES WHICH
HAS BEEN A LONG TIME PARTNER
OF THE SAUDIES IN THAT
REGION, FEENLLY SAUDI ARABIA'S
UNHAPPINESS WITH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION BURST INTO
FULL FLOWER AS WE RECALL A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO WITH
BLIND QUOTES AND ATTRIBUTED
QUOTE TO ITS INTELLIGENCE
CHIEF VOICING SUCH
WHAT THEY SEE AS PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FLIP-FLOP ON WHETHER
OR NOT TO STRIKE SYRIA OVER
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, FOR ONE.
AND TWO, IT'S NOW VERY
VIGOROUS PURSUIT OF
NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN.
SO FOR SAUDI T IS REALLY ALL
ABOUT THE BIG STRUGGLE FOR
POWER IN THE REGION BETWEEN
ITSELF AND IRAN.
AND THERE'S DEFINITELY A
DOUBT ABOUT THE
STEADFASTNESS OF THE U.S..
>> Ifill: SO IS IT REAL
ANGER OR DIPLOMATIC ANGER?
>> THAT'S MUCH DEBATED.
THERE IS REAL ANGER ON THE
ISSUES AND YOU HEARD THAT
FROM THE FOREIGN MINISTER
TODAY, WHO REALLY TICKED
THEM OFF.
AND HE SAID AT ONE POINT
THERE ARE TICKING TIME BOMBS
THAT CANNOT JUST BE MANAGED
AND MANAGED ENDLESSLY.
ABOUT SYRIA AND IRAN.
BUT I'M RELIABLY TOLD THAT
THE SAWED SAUDIES DESPITE
THE THREATS IN THE EARLIER
STORIES, THEY DON'T PLAN TO
TRY TO TOTALLY GO-IT-ALONE
IN FUNDING AND GIVING ARMS
TO REBELS IN SYRIAMENT
BECAUSE THEY THINK ONLY THE
U.S. ACTUALLY HAS BOTH THE
INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITY TO
VET, THEY DON'T WANT JIHADIS
GETTING AHOLD OF THE WEAPONS
ANY MORE THAN WASHINGTON IS.
>> Ifill: AND IRAN IS THE
BACKDROP OF THIS.
>> AND IRAN SIDING WITH
ASSAD IS THE BACKDROP TO
THIS SIDING ON EVERY OTHER
ISSUE IN WHICH THE SAUDIS
ARE CURRENTLY DISAPPOINTED
WITH THE UNITED STATES.
SO I THINK WE EXPECT THE
SAUDIES TO PRESS THE U.S.,
NOT TO GIVE AWAY THE STORE
TO IRAN, NOT TO LIFT
SANCTIONS TOO SOON, AND TO
DO MORE TO HELP THE MODERATE
REBELS IN SYRIA.
>> Ifill: MARGARET RNERWA,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: HIGH UNEMPLOYMENT HAS
BEEN ONE OF THE NATION'S MOST
VEXING PROBLEMS SINCE THE
RECESSION.
BUT INCREASINGLY, THERE ARE ALSO
MOUNTING CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT
CONSTITUTES A GOOD JOB AND A
FAIR WAGE IN AN ERA OF RISING
INEQUALITY.
IT'S A STORY THAT WON'T GO AWAY.
TONIGHT, HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON A FAST FOOD WORKER
TRYING TO MAKE A LIVING IN NEW
YORK CITY.
25-YEAR-OLD WORKED AT THE
KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN IN
NEW YORK FOR TWO YEARS, A
FULL-TIME SHIFT SUPERVISOR
HELPING MANAGE OTHER WORKERS
AND FILLING IN WREFER SHE'S
NEEDED FROM BEING A CASHIER
TO RUNG THE FREYER.
>> DOW GET BENEFITS.
>> NO, NO VACATION, NO
BENEFITS, NO SICK DAYS, NO
PERSONAL DAYS.
THAT'S LUXURY.
THAT'S UNHEARD OF NOW.
>> AN ALL THIS FOR HOW MUCH
AN HOUR.
>> I CURRENTLY GET PAID $8
>> AFTER TAXES THAT WAGE
AN HOUR.
TRANSLATES INTO ABOUT $270 A
>> AFTER TAXES THAT WAGE
WEEK IN TAKE-HOME PAY AND
TRANSLATES INTO ABOUT $270 A
WITH THAT SHE IS SUPPORTING
WEEK IN TAKE-HOME PAY AND
A HOUSEHOLD OF 7.
WITH THAT SHE IS SUPPORTING
>> 7 PEOPLE IN YOUR HOUSE.
A HOUSEHOLD OF 7.
>> 7 PEOPLE IN MY HOUSEHOLD.
>> 7 PEOPLE IN YOUR HOUSE.
MY MOM, MY BROTHER, MY
>> 7 PEOPLE IN MY HOUSEHOLD.
HUSBAND AN MY THREE KIDS.
MY MOM, MY BROTHER, MY
I'M THE BREADWINNER
HUSBAND AN MY THREE KIDS.
CURRENTLY IN MY HOME.
I'M THE BREADWINNER
MY HUSBAND RECENTLY GOT LAID
CURRENTLY IN MY HOME.
OFF.
MY HUSBAND RECENTLY GOT LAID
SO YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO FOOT
OFF.
THE BILL AND I HAVE TO HOLD
SO YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO FOOT
MY HEAD UP HIGH AND MOVE ON.
THE BILL AND I HAVE TO HOLD
>> Reporter: OVER THE PAST
MY HEAD UP HIGH AND MOVE ON.
SEVERAL MONTHS ACTIVISTS AND
>> Reporter: OVER THE PAST
SOME FAST FOOD WORKERS
SEVERAL MONTHS ACTIVISTS AND
INCLUDING SHANNITA HAVE BEEN
SOME FAST FOOD WORKERS
ORGANIZING FOR HIGHER WAGES.
INCLUDING SHANNITA HAVE BEEN
THEY POINT OUT THAT LIKE
ORGANIZING FOR HIGHER WAGES.
SHANNITA ALMOST 40% OF ALL
THEY POINT OUT THAT LIKE
FAST FOOD WORKERS ARE 25 OR
SHANNITA ALMOST 40% OF ALL
OLDER.
FAST FOOD WORKERS ARE 25 OR
AND MORE THAN 25% ARE
OLDER.
RAISING CHILDREN.
AND MORE THAN 25% ARE
IT'S NOT JUST TEENAGERS
RAISING CHILDREN.
FLIPPING BURGERS PART-TIME.
IT'S NOT JUST TEENAGERS
BUT THE INDUSTRY ARGUES THAT
FLIPPING BURGERS PART-TIME.
ONLY 5% OF RESTAURANT
BUT THE INDUSTRY ARGUES THAT
WORKERSCTUA ALLY EARN
ONLY 5% OF RESTAURANT
MINIMUM WAGE.
WORKERSCTUA ALLY EARN
$7.25 IN MOST STATES.
MINIMUM WAGE.
IN NEW YORK AND AROUND THE
$7.25 IN MOST STATES.
COUNTRY THERE HAVE BEEN
IN NEW YORK AND AROUND THE
DAY-LONG STRIKES TO PUSH FOR
COUNTRY THERE HAVE BEEN
A $15 AN HOUR WAGE FOR FAST
DAY-LONG STRIKES TO PUSH FOR
FOOD WORKERS.
A $15 AN HOUR WAGE FOR FAST
>> IF YOU RECOGNIZE THAT THE
FOOD WORKERS.
FASTEST GROWING INDUSTRIES
>> IF YOU RECOGNIZE THAT THE
IN THIS CITY ARE FAST FOOD
FASTEST GROWING INDUSTRIES
WORKERS, FAST-FOOD
IN THIS CITY ARE FAST FOOD
RESTAURANTS AND IT'S A RACE
WORKERS, FAST-FOOD
TO THE BOTTOM, MAKE SOME
RESTAURANTS AND IT'S A RACE
NOISE!
TO THE BOTTOM, MAKE SOME
ON HER NEAR MINIMUM WAGE
NOISE!
SALARY, SHANNITA IS ONE OF
ON HER NEAR MINIMUM WAGE
MORE THAN $-- 10 MILLION
SALARY, SHANNITA IS ONE OF
AMERICANS WORKING AND LIVING
MORE THAN $-- 10 MILLION
BELOW THE POVERTY LINE WHICH
AMERICANS WORKING AND LIVING
IS AROUND $35,000 A YEAR FOR
BELOW THE POVERTY LINE WHICH
A FAMILY OF 7.
IS AROUND $35,000 A YEAR FOR
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND HOW
A FAMILY OF 7.
PEOPLE LIKE HER GET BY, WE
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND HOW
ASKED SHANNITA TO TRACK HER
PEOPLE LIKE HER GET BY, WE
EXPENSES OVER THE COURSE OF
ASKED SHANNITA TO TRACK HER
A WEEK TO GET A SENSE OF
EXPENSES OVER THE COURSE OF
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LIVE
A WEEK TO GET A SENSE OF
PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK ON A
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LIVE
FAST FOOD WAGE.
PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK ON A
SHANNITA GETS PAID ON
FAST FOOD WAGE.
MONDAYS AND AFTER DEPOSITING
SHANNITA GETS PAID ON
HER CHECK, $2689-- $269.88
MONDAYS AND AFTER DEPOSITING
THIS WEEK SHE IMMEDIATELY
HER CHECK, $2689-- $269.88
TAKES OUT $100 TO PAY BACK
THIS WEEK SHE IMMEDIATELY
MONEY SHE OWS FROM THE WOKE
TAKES OUT $100 TO PAY BACK
BEFORE.
MONEY SHE OWS FROM THE WOKE
SHE'S THEN OFF TO THE
BEFORE.
GROCERY STORE.
SHE'S THEN OFF TO THE
FOOD TAKES UP THE BIGGEST
GROCERY STORE.
CHUNK OF HER BUDGET.
FOOD TAKES UP THE BIGGEST
ON THIS TRIP SHE SPENT
CHUNK OF HER BUDGET.
$53.57.
ON THIS TRIP SHE SPENT
>> MILK, MAC AND CHEESE AND
$53.57.
CHICKEN.
>> MILK, MAC AND CHEESE AND
>> IN ADDITION TO FIVE BOXES
CHICKEN.
OF MACARONI AND CHEESE SHE
>> IN ADDITION TO FIVE BOXES
BUYS THREE BAGS OF 99 CENT
OF MACARONI AND CHEESE SHE
PER POUND CHICK THAN SHE
BUYS THREE BAGS OF 99 CENT
CLEAN, SKINS AND COOKS FOR
PER POUND CHICK THAN SHE
HER FAMILY.
CLEAN, SKINS AND COOKS FOR
EACH BAG RUNS ABOUT $5.
HER FAMILY.
>> $6.
EACH BAG RUNS ABOUT $5.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
>> $6.
EXPENSIVE ITEMS ON HER RESET,
>> IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
LACTOSE FREE MILK A
EXPENSIVE ITEMS ON HER RESET,
NECESSITY FOR HER
LACTOSE FREE MILK A
FIVE-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WHO
NECESSITY FOR HER
IS ALLERGIC TO MILK, NUTS,
FIVE-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WHO
WHEAT AND EGG.
IS ALLERGIC TO MILK, NUTS,
>> 104 IS LARGER THAN 014.
WHEAT AND EGG.
>> BOTH KAI RA AND SHANNITA
>> 104 IS LARGER THAN 014.
OLDER DAUGHTER 9-YEAR-OLD
>> BOTH KAI RA AND SHANNITA
KAYLA GET BREAKFAST AND LURG
OLDER DAUGHTER 9-YEAR-OLD
AT SCHOOL WHICH FILLS A BIG
KAYLA GET BREAKFAST AND LURG
GAP FOR SHANITYA.
AT SCHOOL WHICH FILLS A BIG
>> THEY GET THREE MEALS A
DAY AND ONLY HOW MY CHILDREN
GET THREE MEALS A DAY IS
BECAUSE THEIR SCHOOL
PROVIDES TWO MEALS OUT OF
THOSE THREE MEALS.
IF I WAS TO SURVIVE OFF
THREE MEALS A DAY FOR MY
CHILDREN WE WOULDN'T MAKE IT
WE WOB HOMELESS.
WE WOULD BE STARVING.
ONE OR THE OTHER.
>> WHILE SHANNITA IS AT WORK
HER HUSBAND GETS KAI RA AND
CAMEA TO AND FROM SCHOOL AND
TAKES CARE OF SARA THEIR 8
MONTH OLD DAUGHTER.
THE FAMILY RECEIVES ABOUT
$200 A MONTH FROM THE
FEDERALLY FUNDED WOMEN,
INFANTS AND CHILDREN OR WIC
PROGRAM FOR SOME OF SARA'S
BASIC NECESSITIES LIKE BABY
FOOD.
SHE TOLD US YEARS AGO SHE
USED TO QUALIFY FOR THE
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OR FOOD
STAMPS BUT AT SOME POINT
LOST THE BENEFIT.
THE WEEK WE FOLLOWED HER SHE
DECIDED TO TRY AND APPLY
AGAIN.
ON ONE OF HER TWO DAYS OFF
SHANNITA AND HER HUSBAND
CAME HERE, A LOCAL NEW YORK
CITY SOCIAL SERVICE OFFICE
TO APPLY FOR FOOD STAMPS.
>> MY DAY OFF IS NEVER
ACTUALLY A DAY OFF.
>> SHE WAITS FIVE HOURS TO
APPLY BECAUSE EVERY DOLLAR
HELPS.
>> ANYTHING THEY GIVE IS
DEFINITELY WILL STRETCH A
LONG WAY, IF I HAVE TO USE
COUPONS AND STRETCH AND DO
WHAT I HAVE TO DO.
>> 52% OF FRONT LINE FAST
FOOD WORKERS RELY ON SOME
SORT OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
INCLUDING FOOD STAMPS,
MEDICAID OR THE EARNED
INCOME TAX CREDIT.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO A NEW
REPORT FROM RESEARCHER AT
THE U.S. BERKELEY LABOR
CENTER.
IN TOTAL THEY CALCULATE
THESE BENEFITS COST
TAXPAYERS NEARLY $7 BILLION
A YEAR.
IT WOULD BE 30 TO 45 DAYS
BEFORE SHANNITA KNOWS IF SHE
QUALIFIES FOR FOOD STAMPS.
BUT SHE ALREADY DEPENDS ON
OTHER PUBLIC AID TO GET BY.
WHILE SHE AND HER HUSBAND
ARE CURRENTLY WITHOUT
HEALTH-CARE COVERAGE, HER
CHILDREN ARE ALL ON MEDICAID.
AND THE FAMILY LIVES IN A
HEAVILY SUBSIDIZED FOUR
BEDROOM PUBLIC HOUSING
APARTMENT.
SHANNITA HAS TO PONY UP ONLY
$200 A MONTH BUT THE WE CAN
WE FOLLOWED HER SHE WASN'T
ABLE TO PUT ANY RENT MONEY
ASIDE.
>> IS IT HARD HAVING 7
PEOPLE UNDER ONE ROOF.
>> IT'S VERY HARD.
IT'S ON A DAY-TO-DAY BASIS
SOMETIMES YOU STEP ON EACH
OTHER TOAST AND YOU KNOW,
BUT AS A FAMILY, WE LEARN TO
UNITE AND WE LEARN HOW TO
STRUGGLE TOGETHER BECAUSE AT
THE END OF THE DAY, THIS IS
ABOUT THESE THREE CHILDREN.
WE DON'T LET THEM EXPERIENCE
POVERTY.
WE DON'T LET THEM SEE MOMMY,
CAN I GO ON MY FIELD TRIP.
MOMMY, CAN I SHALL DID --
YOU KNOW, CAN WE CELEBRATE
HALLOWEEN.
>> YOU SAID THAT YOU WANTED
TO KEEP YOUR CHILDREN FROM
WITNESSES POVERTY.
BUT YOU LIVE AT A REALLY
TOUGH NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> YES, I DO.
>> THE BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD
OF BROWNSVILLE WHERE
SHANNITA AND HER FAMILY LIVE
HAS ONE OF THE HIGHEST
VIOLENT CRIME RATES IN ALL
OF NEW YORK CITY.
>> WE DON'T DO ANYTHING IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BUT BUY
WHAT WE NEED AND COME HOME.
IF WE HAVE TO GO SOMEWHERE
VERY IMPORTANT, WE MAKE SURE
EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING,
ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING IS IN
WALKING DISTANCE BECAUSE WE
CAN'T AFFORD TRANSPORTATION.
>> SHANNITA DID SPEND $20 ON
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION THE
WEEK WE WERE WITH HER.
BUT SHE'S ALSO FORCED TO
SOMETIMES TAKE TAXIES.
FOR EXAMPLE, AFTER APPLYING
FOR FOOD STAMPS TOOK SO MUCH
TIME, SHANNITA AND JUDE HAD
TO HOP IN A CAB IN ORDER TO
NOT BE LATE PICK UP CAMEA
AND KAI RA AT SCHOOL.
BUT THE FAMILY DOES A LOT OF
WALKING INCLUDING THE ALMOST
MILE AND A HALF TO AND FROM
SCHOOL.
SHANNITA SAYS THE DAILY
ROUND TRIP BUS FARE WOULD BE
TOO EXPENSIVE.
>> MY KIDS IS IN ONE OF THE
BEST SCHOOLS IN BROOKLYN.
AND WE HAVE TO SACRIFICE
TRANSPORTATION, WALKING 45
MINUTES A DAY TO MAKE SURE
THEY ARE IN THE BEST SCHOOL.
BECAUSE WE CAN'T AFFORD, YOU
KNOW, FOR THEM TO BE, YOU
KNOW, JUST GETTING BY, YOU
KNOW N SCHOOL.
I GOT BY IN SCHOOL.
AND I MEAN I'M IN FAST FOOD.
I'M IN ONE OF THE QUOTE,
UNQUOTE, LOW-WAGE JOBS.
>> AFTER SPENDING $45 BOY 35
ON TOILETRIES FOR THE HOUSE
AND AN ESTIMATED $40 ON BABY
SUPPLIES INCLUDING WIPES AND
DIAPERS, SHANNITA'S BANK
ACCOUNT IS DOWN TO $3.26 BY
THE TIME THE FOLLOWING
MONDAY ROLLS AROUND.
>> IS THERE SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE IN THE REST OF THE
COUNTRY ARE MISSING WHEN
THEY SAY YOU KNOW WHAT, I
WOULD BE HAPPY TO TAKE AN $8
AN HOUR JOB, TIMES ARE
TIGHT.
PEOPLE WOULD BE WILLING TO
WORK FOR ANYTHING.
>> I WOULD SAY TO THEM IT'S
EASY LOOKING FROM OUTSIDE IN
AND SAYING OH, YEAH, WITH
THAT MONEY I WOULD BE ABLE
TO, YOU KNOW, BUILD
MOUNTAINS, YOU KNOW.
BUT LET ME SEE YOU SURVIVE.
I WANT TO SEE ANYONE I
CHALLENGE YOU, DO IT.
>> IT'S A CHALLENGE SHE
OVERCOMES WEEK AFTER WEEK
>> Ifill: TOMORROW, PAUL SOLMAN
CONTINUES OUR LOOK AT INCOME
INEQUALITY WITH A STORY ABOUT
EFFORTS TO RAISE THE MINIMUM
WAGE TO $15 AN HOUR IN SEATAC, A
SMALL CITY SOUTH OF SEATTLE THAT
INCLUDES THE INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT.
THAT'S ONE OF SEVERAL CRITICAL
BALLOT INITIATIVES FACING VOTERS
AS THEY HEAD TO THE POLLS
TOMORROW.
WE LOOK AT TWO STATES.
WASHINGTON STATE VOTERS ARE ALSO
CONSIDERING A MEASURE TO REQUIRE
THE LABELING OF GENETICALLY
MODIFIED FOOD.
DECIDE WHETHER TO RAISE STATE
AND IN COLORADO VOTERS WILL
INCOME TAXES TO BOOST EDUCATION
DECIDE WHETHER TO RAISE STATE
FUNDING AND ALSO WHETHER TO TAX
INCOME TAXES TO BOOST EDUCATION
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA.
FUNDING AND ALSO WHETHER TO TAX
JOINING US NOW TO TALK ABOUT
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA.
THESE MEASURES ARE MEGAN VERLEE
JOINING US NOW TO TALK ABOUT
OF COLORADO PUBLIC RADIO AND
THESE MEASURES ARE MEGAN VERLEE
ENRIQUE CERNA OF KCTS IN
OF COLORADO PUBLIC RADIO AND
SEATTLE.
ENRIQUE CERNA OF KCTS IN
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
SEATTLE.
ENRIQUE CERNA, LET'S TALK
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
ABOUT THIS AGAIN ET
ENRIQUE CERNA, LET'S TALK
CETERAICALLY MODIFIED FOOD
ABOUT THIS AGAIN ET
INITIATIVE.
CETERAICALLY MODIFIED FOOD
THIS IS ABOUT LABELING, IS
INITIATIVE.
THAT WHAT IT IS?
THIS IS ABOUT LABELING, IS
>> YES, IT IS.
THAT WHAT IT IS?
IT IS INITIATIVE 522.
>> YES, IT IS.
IT WOULD REQUIRE THE
IT IS INITIATIVE 522.
LABELING OF GENETICALLY
IT WOULD REQUIRE THE
MODIFIED FOODS ON TO
LABELING OF GENETICALLY
PRODUCTS.
MODIFIED FOODS ON TO
WHAT IS INTERESTING ABOUT
PRODUCTS.
THIS IS THAT THERE'S A LOT
WHAT IS INTERESTING ABOUT
OF CONTROVERSY OVER WHAT IS
THIS IS THAT THERE'S A LOT
EXEMPT AND NOT EXEMPT.
OF CONTROVERSY OVER WHAT IS
AND THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
EXEMPT AND NOT EXEMPT.
THAT THE OPPONENTS OF THE
AND THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
INITIATIVE POINT OUT.
THAT THE OPPONENTS OF THE
AND THEY SAY THAT THEY CLAIM
INITIATIVE POINT OUT.
THAT IT'S A POORLY WRITTEN
AND THEY SAY THAT THEY CLAIM
INITIATIVE.
THAT IT'S A POORLY WRITTEN
AND THAT SOME ITEMS, SOME
INITIATIVE.
DAIRY PRODUCTS, SOME MEAT
AND THAT SOME ITEMS, SOME
PRODUCTS, OTHERS WOULD NOT
DAIRY PRODUCTS, SOME MEAT
BE, WOULD NOT APPLY TO THIS.
PRODUCTS, OTHERS WOULD NOT
OTHERS WOULD.
BE, WOULD NOT APPLY TO THIS.
SO THEY THINK THAT THIS IS
OTHERS WOULD.
GOING TO ADD A LOT OF
SO THEY THINK THAT THIS IS
CONFUSION.
GOING TO ADD A LOT OF
THEY ALSO ARE AGAINST THIS
CONFUSION.
BECAUSE THEY FEEL THAT IT IS
THEY ALSO ARE AGAINST THIS
GOING TO COST THE CONSUMER
BECAUSE THEY FEEL THAT IT IS
MORE MONEY, WHATEVER
GOING TO COST THE CONSUMER
LABELING THAT HAS TO BE
MORE MONEY, WHATEVER
DONE.
LABELING THAT HAS TO BE
WOULD BE SENT DOWN TO THE
DONE.
CONSUMER.
WOULD BE SENT DOWN TO THE
A LOT OF MONEY ALSO IN THIS
CONSUMER.
CAMPAIGN.
A LOT OF MONEY ALSO IN THIS
THE OPPONENTS OF INITIATIVE
CAMPAIGN.
I-522 HAVE SPENT FOUR TO ONE
THE OPPONENTS OF INITIATIVE
OVER THE PROPONENTS MORE
I-522 HAVE SPENT FOUR TO ONE
THAN 22 MILLION DOLLARS.
OVER THE PROPONENTS MORE
IT'S A RECORD HERE IN
THAN 22 MILLION DOLLARS.
WASHINGTON STATE FOR ANYONE
IT'S A RECORD HERE IN
THAT'S TRIED TO DEFEAT AN
WASHINGTON STATE FOR ANYONE
INITIATIVE.
THAT'S TRIED TO DEFEAT AN
>> Ifill: CAN I ASK WHO
INITIATIVE.
THESE PEOPLE ARE.
>> Ifill: CAN I ASK WHO
WHO IS ON WHICH SIDE OF THE
THESE PEOPLE ARE.
ISSUE.
WHO IS ON WHICH SIDE OF THE
WE TALK ABOUT CORPORATE
ISSUE.
INTERESTS AGAINST AG
WE TALK ABOUT CORPORATE
INTERESTS?
INTERESTS AGAINST AG
WHO IS TAKING WHICH SIDE?
INTERESTS?
>> WELL, BASICALLY WHAT YOU
WHO IS TAKING WHICH SIDE?
HAVE IS YES, YOU HAVE
>> WELL, BASICALLY WHAT YOU
CORPORATE INTERESTS ON THE
HAVE IS YES, YOU HAVE
SIDE THAT IS AGAINST I-522.
CORPORATE INTERESTS ON THE
THE GROCERY MANUFACTURERS
SIDE THAT IS AGAINST I-522.
ASSOCIATION, D.C.-BASED FOOD
THE GROCERY MANUFACTURERS
GROUP HAS LEAD ALL OF THIS.
ASSOCIATION, D.C.-BASED FOOD
THEY ALSO AT ONE POINT WERE
GROUP HAS LEAD ALL OF THIS.
PUSHED BY THE STATE ATTORNEY
THEY ALSO AT ONE POINT WERE
GENERAL HERE TO, HE FILED A
PUSHED BY THE STATE ATTORNEY
LAWSUIT BECAUSE THEY HAD NOT
GENERAL HERE TO, HE FILED A
DISCLOSED WHOEVER THEIR
LAWSUIT BECAUSE THEY HAD NOT
BACKERS WERE.
DISCLOSED WHOEVER THEIR
THEY PUT ABOUT $11 MILLION
BACKERS WERE.
INTO THIS.
THEY PUT ABOUT $11 MILLION
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
INTO THIS.
MONSANTO, YOU ARE TALKING
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
ABOUT PEPSI, COCA-COLA,
MONSANTO, YOU ARE TALKING
OTHER GROUPS THAT HAVE PUT
ABOUT PEPSI, COCA-COLA,
IN LARGE AMOUNTS OF MONEY
OTHER GROUPS THAT HAVE PUT
INTO DEFEATING THIS
IN LARGE AMOUNTS OF MONEY
INITIATIVE.
INTO DEFEATING THIS
ON THE OTHER SIDE YOU HAVE A
INITIATIVE.
LOT OF PEOPLE THAT ARE, YOU
ON THE OTHER SIDE YOU HAVE A
KNOW, FOR ORGANIC FOODS.
LOT OF PEOPLE THAT ARE, YOU
SOME FARMERS, THOSE TYPES OF
KNOW, FOR ORGANIC FOODS.
FOLKS.
SOME FARMERS, THOSE TYPES OF
THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
FOLKS.
ALL OF THIS IS THAT ON BOTH
THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
SIDES OF THE ISSUE THE MONEY
ALL OF THIS IS THAT ON BOTH
REALLY HAS COME FROM OUT OF
SIDES OF THE ISSUE THE MONEY
STATE.
REALLY HAS COME FROM OUT OF
AND SO IT RAISES A LOT OF
STATE.
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WHOLE
AND SO IT RAISES A LOT OF
INITIATIVE PROCESS HERE.
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WHOLE
AND BUT ALSO THE FACT THAT
INITIATIVE PROCESS HERE.
THIS IS A TYPE OF INITIATIVE,
AND BUT ALSO THE FACT THAT
YOU MAY RECALL THAT LAST
THIS IS A TYPE OF INITIATIVE,
YEAR IN CALIFORNIA, 53
YOU MAY RECALL THAT LAST
MILLION DOLLARS WAS SPENT
YEAR IN CALIFORNIA, 53
THERE TO STOP AN INITIATIVE
MILLION DOLLARS WAS SPENT
THAT WOULD HAVE PUT LABELING
THERE TO STOP AN INITIATIVE
ON GENETICALLY MODIFIED
THAT WOULD HAVE PUT LABELING
FOODS THERE.
ON GENETICALLY MODIFIED
THAT INITIATIVE LOST.
FOODS THERE.
>> MEGAN IN COLORADO, LAST
THAT INITIATIVE LOST.
YEAR YOU LEGALIZED OR VOTERS
>> MEGAN IN COLORADO, LAST
OF COLORADO LEGALIZED
YEAR YOU LEGALIZED OR VOTERS
MARIJUANA.
OF COLORADO LEGALIZED
NOW THIS YEAR THEY ARE BEING
MARIJUANA.
ASKED TO TAX IT.
NOW THIS YEAR THEY ARE BEING
TELL ME ABOUT THAT?
ASKED TO TAX IT.
>> WELL, THE BALLOT
TELL ME ABOUT THAT?
AMENDMENT THAT PASSED LAST
>> WELL, THE BALLOT
YEAR ACTUALLY CONTAINED
AMENDMENT THAT PASSED LAST
LANGUAGE SAYING THAT OUR
YEAR ACTUALLY CONTAINED
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
LANGUAGE SAYING THAT OUR
AND THAT WAS A TOBACCO TAX.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
SO I THINK FOLKS LOOKING TO
AND THAT WAS A TOBACCO TAX.
TAX THE MARIJUANA INDUSTRY
SO I THINK FOLKS LOOKING TO
ARE LOOKING TO THAT AND
TAX THE MARIJUANA INDUSTRY
THINKING, YOU KNOW THIS IS
ARE LOOKING TO THAT AND
SOMETHING OUR VOTERS WILL
THINKING, YOU KNOW THIS IS
ACCEPT.
SOMETHING OUR VOTERS WILL
>> WHILE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
ACCEPT.
TAXES THERE IS ANOTHER
>> WHILE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
INITIATIVE ON YOUR BALLOT I
TAXES THERE IS ANOTHER
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT.
INITIATIVE ON YOUR BALLOT I
IT WOULD RAISE A BILLION
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT.
DOLLARS FOR EDUCATION.
IT WOULD RAISE A BILLION
IS THAT AS POPULAR AS THE
DOLLARS FOR EDUCATION.
MARIJUANA TAX?
IS THAT AS POPULAR AS THE
>> NO.
MARIJUANA TAX?
AND AGAIN AS YOU LOOK TO
>> NO.
HISTORY, THE STATE HAS NOT
AND AGAIN AS YOU LOOK TO
MANAGED TO PASS ANY KIND OF
HISTORY, THE STATE HAS NOT
GENERAL STATEWIDE TAX
MANAGED TO PASS ANY KIND OF
INCREASE.
GENERAL STATEWIDE TAX
THE THINKING AT THIS POINT
INCREASE.
DID THAT PROBABLY, IF IT
THE THINKING AT THIS POINT
WINS IT GOING TO SQUEAK BY
DID THAT PROBABLY, IF IT
BUT IT HAS A VERY HARD
WINS IT GOING TO SQUEAK BY
UPHILL CLIMB.
BUT IT HAS A VERY HARD
AND INTERESTINGLY ALL THE
UPHILL CLIMB.
MONEY IN THAT RACE HAS BEEN
AND INTERESTINGLY ALL THE
IN FAVOR OF THE EDUCATION
MONEY IN THAT RACE HAS BEEN
TAX.
IN FAVOR OF THE EDUCATION
WE'VE SEEN MILLIONS OF
TAX.
DOLLARS POURING IN FROM
WE'VE SEEN MILLIONS OF
NATIONAL EDUCATION UNIONS,
DOLLARS POURING IN FROM
TEACHERS UNIONS.
NATIONAL EDUCATION UNIONS,
WE'VE SEEN MILLION DOLLARS
TEACHERS UNIONS.
COMING FROM THE GATES FOUND
WE'VE SEEN MILLION DOLLARS
DAY, A MILLION DOLLARS
COMING FROM THE GATES FOUND
COMING FROM MICHAEL
DAY, A MILLION DOLLARS
BLOOMBERG.
COMING FROM MICHAEL
BIG, BIG MONEY PUSHING FOR
BLOOMBERG.
THIS TAX MEASURE.
BIG, BIG MONEY PUSHING FOR
BUT IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY
THIS TAX MEASURE.
HARD SELL TO VOTERS.
BUT IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY
>> Ifill: AND WHERE IS THE
HARD SELL TO VOTERS.
MONEY SUPPOSED TO GO FOR
>> Ifill: AND WHERE IS THE
THIS, ASSUMING THAT IT WERE
MONEY SUPPOSED TO GO FOR
TO PASS?
THIS, ASSUMING THAT IT WERE
>> WELL, IT'S AN INTERESTING
TO PASS?
STRATEGY THIS TIME THE
>> WELL, IT'S AN INTERESTING
PROPONENTS ARE HOPING THAT
STRATEGY THIS TIME THE
BY LAYING OUT A LOT OF VERY
PROPONENTS ARE HOPING THAT
CONCRETE AREAS THAT WILL GET
BY LAYING OUT A LOT OF VERY
FUNDED, THAT VOTERS WILL BE
CONCRETE AREAS THAT WILL GET
MORE RECEPTIVE THAN IF IT'S
FUNDED, THAT VOTERS WILL BE
JUST HEY, LOTS OF MONEY FOR
MORE RECEPTIVE THAN IF IT'S
EDUCATION SO IT'S THINGS
JUST HEY, LOTS OF MONEY FOR
LIKE MORE MONEY FOR SCHOOL
EDUCATION SO IT'S THINGS
DISTRICTS WITH AT RISK
LIKE MORE MONEY FOR SCHOOL
STUDENTS AND ENGLISH
DISTRICTS WITH AT RISK
LANGUAGE LEARNERS.
STUDENTS AND ENGLISH
MORE MONEY FOR ARTS
LANGUAGE LEARNERS.
EDUCATION.
MORE MONEY FOR ARTS
MONEY TO PUT IN PLACE A
EDUCATION.
WHOLE RAFT EDUCATIONAL
MONEY TO PUT IN PLACE A
REFORMS THAT ARE GENERAL
WHOLE RAFT EDUCATIONAL
ASSEMBLIES IN PASSING BUT
REFORMS THAT ARE GENERAL
HASN'T BEEN ABLE TO FUND.
ASSEMBLIES IN PASSING BUT
AND MONEY TO CREATE
HASN'T BEEN ABLE TO FUND.
ACCOUNTABILITY.
AND MONEY TO CREATE
SO WEB SITE WHERE YOU COULD
ACCOUNTABILITY.
GO AND SEE HOW EVERY SINGLE
SO WEB SITE WHERE YOU COULD
DOLLAR IS SPENT SO THEY'RE
GO AND SEE HOW EVERY SINGLE
HOPING THAT BY HAVING THIS
DOLLAR IS SPENT SO THEY'RE
LAUNDRY LIST OF THINGS THE
HOPING THAT BY HAVING THIS
MONEY IS GOING TO PEOPLE
LAUNDRY LIST OF THINGS THE
WILL FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
MONEY IS GOING TO PEOPLE
THAN USING JUST A BLANK
WILL FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
CHECK FOR>> Ifill: ENRIQUE CERNA
THAN USING JUST A BLANK
LET'S GO BACK TO WASHINGTON
CHECK FOR>> Ifill: ENRIQUE CERNA
STATE BECAUSE THERE IS
LET'S GO BACK TO WASHINGTON
ANOTHER MEASURE WHICH
STATE BECAUSE THERE IS
ACTUALLY COMPLETELY COMES
ANOTHER MEASURE WHICH
OUT OF WHAT WE JUST HEARD.
ACTUALLY COMPLETELY COMES
A REPORT IN NEW YORK WHICH
OUT OF WHAT WE JUST HEARD.
PAUL SOLMAN WILL TELL US
A REPORT IN NEW YORK WHICH
MORE ABOUT TOMORROW NIGHT,
PAUL SOLMAN WILL TELL US
THIS IS THIS IDEA OF
MORE ABOUT TOMORROW NIGHT,
CREATING I'M SORRY I'M
THIS IS THIS IDEA OF
BLANKING OUT ON WHAT IT IS,
CREATING I'M SORRY I'M
ON THE MINIMUM.
BLANKING OUT ON WHAT IT IS,
$15 MINUTE -- MINIMUM WAGE.
ON THE MINIMUM.
>> $15 MINIMUM WAGE.
$15 MINUTE -- MINIMUM WAGE.
>> WASHINGTON STATE ALREADY
>> $15 MINIMUM WAGE.
HAS THE HIGHEST MINIMUM WAGE
>> WASHINGTON STATE ALREADY
OF ANY STATE IN THE COUNTRY.
HAS THE HIGHEST MINIMUM WAGE
OVER $9 AN HOUR, I BELIEVE
OF ANY STATE IN THE COUNTRY.
IT'S $9.19 AN HOUR THIS
OVER $9 AN HOUR, I BELIEVE
WOULD-- THIS WOULD APPLY TO
IT'S $9.19 AN HOUR THIS
CTAC WHICH IS A
WOULD-- THIS WOULD APPLY TO
COMMUNITY-- SEA TAC, A
CTAC WHICH IS A
COMMUNITY OF ABOUT 12,000,
COMMUNITY-- SEA TAC, A
RIGHT AROUND THE AIRPORT SO
COMMUNITY OF ABOUT 12,000,
IT IS OUTSIDE OF SEATTLE.
RIGHT AROUND THE AIRPORT SO
AND IT WOULD APPLY TO THOSE
IT IS OUTSIDE OF SEATTLE.
WHO WORK AT THE AIRPORT, THE
AND IT WOULD APPLY TO THOSE
AIRPORT WORKERS, PEOPLE THAT
WHO WORK AT THE AIRPORT, THE
HANDLE TRANSPORTATION AND
AIRPORT WORKERS, PEOPLE THAT
PEOPLE THAT HANDLE BAGGAGE
HANDLE TRANSPORTATION AND
HANDLING AND A PEOPLE THAT
PEOPLE THAT HANDLE BAGGAGE
HANDLE THE SERVICES OUT
HANDLING AND A PEOPLE THAT
THERE.
HANDLE THE SERVICES OUT
AS WELL AS SOME OF THE HOTEL
THERE.
WORKERS, CLERKS, LOCALLY.
AS WELL AS SOME OF THE HOTEL
IT WOULD BOOST THEM UP TO
WORKERS, CLERKS, LOCALLY.
$15 AN HOUR.
IT WOULD BOOST THEM UP TO
MANY OF THEM ARE JUST
$15 AN HOUR.
WORKING ON MINIMUM WAGE IT
MANY OF THEM ARE JUST
ALSO WOULD GIVE THEM AN
WORKING ON MINIMUM WAGE IT
OPPORTUNITY TO EARN PAID
ALSO WOULD GIVE THEM AN
SICK LEAVE, SOMETHING THAT
OPPORTUNITY TO EARN PAID
MANY OF THEM DON'T HAVE.
SICK LEAVE, SOMETHING THAT
IF THEY WORK $HO A WEEK THEY
MANY OF THEM DON'T HAVE.
WOULD GET AT LEAST AN HOUR
IF THEY WORK $HO A WEEK THEY
OF PAID SICK LEAVE SO THOSE
WOULD GET AT LEAST AN HOUR
ARE THE MAIN THINGS OUT OF
OF PAID SICK LEAVE SO THOSE
THIS.
ARE THE MAIN THINGS OUT OF
>> Ifill: TIS
THIS.
INITIATIVE BUT THIS HAS
>> Ifill: TIS
STATEWIDE IMPACT.
INITIATIVE BUT THIS HAS
>> RIGHT.
STATEWIDE IMPACT.
>> IT HAS STATEWIDE T
>> RIGHT.
DEFINITELY HAS STATEWIDE
>> IT HAS STATEWIDE T
IMPLICATIONS, AND ACTUALLY I
DEFINITELY HAS STATEWIDE
THINK IF ALSO HAS NATIONAL
IMPLICATIONS, AND ACTUALLY I
IMPLICATIONS BECAUSE AS YOU
THINK IF ALSO HAS NATIONAL
KNOW THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
IMPLICATIONS BECAUSE AS YOU
TALKING ABOUT BUMPING UP THE
KNOW THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
MINIMUM WAGE NATIONALLY.
TALKING ABOUT BUMPING UP THE
THERE IS ALSO BEEN EFFORTS
MINIMUM WAGE NATIONALLY.
FOR STATES TO BUMP UP THE
THERE IS ALSO BEEN EFFORTS
MINIMUM WAGE AS WELL.
FOR STATES TO BUMP UP THE
SO IF IT PASSES HERE, AND
MINIMUM WAGE AS WELL.
THE UNIONS ARE LOOKING AT
SO IF IT PASSES HERE, AND
THIS VERY STRONGLY.
THE UNIONS ARE LOOKING AT
THEY'RE THE ONES BEHIND
THIS VERY STRONGLY.
THIS.
THEY'RE THE ONES BEHIND
BECAUSE THEY, IT'S SOMETHING
THIS.
THAT THEY FEEL THAT WOULD
BECAUSE THEY, IT'S SOMETHING
HELP THEIR UNION MEMBERSHIP
THAT THEY FEEL THAT WOULD
WHICH HAS BEEN LAGGING.
HELP THEIR UNION MEMBERSHIP
BUT ALSO THIS WHOLE DEBATE
WHICH HAS BEEN LAGGING.
ABOUT WAGE EQUALITY IN
BUT ALSO THIS WHOLE DEBATE
AMERICA TODAY.
ABOUT WAGE EQUALITY IN
AND SO THAT'S WHY THIS SMALL
AMERICA TODAY.
COMMUNITY HAS BECOME IN THE
AND SO THAT'S WHY THIS SMALL
SPOTLIGHT.
COMMUNITY HAS BECOME IN THE
>> WE WILL HEAR MORE ABOUT
SPOTLIGHT.
THAT FROM PAUL SOLMAN
>> WE WILL HEAR MORE ABOUT
TOMORROW NIGHT.
THAT FROM PAUL SOLMAN
ENRIQUE CERNA AND MEGAN
TOMORROW NIGHT.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH
>> Ifill: NOW, A NEW REPORT SAYS
AMERICAN DOCTORS HAVE COOPERATED
IN WHAT AMOUNTED TO THE TORTURE
OF TERROR SUSPECTS.
THE CLAIM COMES FROM A TASK
FORCE OF THE INSTITUTE ON
MEDICINE AS A PROFESSION, AN
INDEPENDENT GROUP AFFILIATED
WITH COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AND THE
OPEN SOCIETY FOUNDATION.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THE STORY.
>> Brown: THE REPORT IS
UNEQUIVOCAL.
IT IS AS THAT OVER THE LAST
DECADE MILITARY AND CIVILIAN
PHYSICIANS, NURSES AND
PSYCHOLOGISTS VIOLATED
ETHICAL CODES UNDER ORDERS
FROM THE MILITARY AND THE
CIA.
IT SAYS THEY DESIGNED AND
PARTICIPATED IN QUOTE CRUEL,
INHUMANE AND DEGRADING
TREATMENT TO PRISONERS AT
GUANTANAMO AN OTHER
DETENTION SITES.
AMONG ALLEGED PRACTICES,
ADVISING INTERROGATERS BE
USING SLEEP DEPRIVATION AN
OTHER METHODS TO DISORIENT
DETAINEES, USING MEDICAL
INFORMATION SUCH AS PHOBIAS
FOR INTERROGATION PURPOSES.
AND FORCE FEEDING OF HUNGER
STRIKING DETAINEES.
THE GROUP SAYS THE ETHICAL
BREACHES TOOK PLACE UNDER
BOTH THE GEORGE W. BUSH AND
OBAMA ADMINISTRATIONS.
THE CIA AND THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT DENIED THE
FINDINGS.
IN AN E-MAIL TO THE NEWSHOUR
A PENTAGON SPOKESMAN WROTE
IT IS THE POLICY OF THE
DEPARTMENT TO PROTECT THE
LIFE AND HEALTH OF DETAINEES
BY HUMANE AND APPROPRIATE
CLINICAL NEEDS.
AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL
APPLICABLE LAW AND POLICY.
IN ADDITION TO SEEKING THAT
RESPONSE FROM THE PENTAGON
WE CANNED AN OFFICIAL TO
APPEAR ON THE PROGRAM BUT
WERE TURNED DOWN.
WE ARE JOINED NOW BY
DR. STEPHEN XENAKIS, RETIRED
ARMY BRIGADIER-GENERAL AND
MEMBER OF THE TASK FORCE,
NOW IN PRIVATE PRACTICE AND
ALSO SERVES AS CONSULTANT TO
SEVERAL DEFENSE TEAMS.
AND LEE CASEY SAY FORMER
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL
DURING THE REGULAR AND AND
FIRST BUSH ADMINISTRATION,
HE PRACTICED LAW AND WRITES
OPINION COMES FOR THE WAGE
WAJ AND OTHER
PUBLICATIONMENT WELCOME TO
BOTH OF YOU.
STEPHEN XENAKIS, BROADLY
SPEAK THE ALLEGATIONS IN
THIS REPORT SEEM TO BE THAT
THE MILITARY PUSHED MEDICAL
PERSONNEL TO DO CERTAIN
THINGS AND THAT THEY
ACQUIESCE-- ACQUIESCED S IT
BROADLY AGAINST BOTH?
>> IT'S BROADLY AGAINST THE
MILITARY, THE SENIOR
LEADERSHIP AND IN TERMS OF
THE POLICIES AND PRACTICES
THEY PUT IN PLACE.
AND IT ALSO IS AGAINST THE
PHYSICIANS, PARTICULARLY THE
SENIOR PHYSICIANS WHO
ACQUIESCED TO THE PRESSURE
THEY WERE GETTING FROM THE
GOVERNMENT BOSSES.
>> Brown: SO GIVE US AN
EXAMPLE OF SOMETHING, A
PRACTICE THAT YOU CITE THERE,
AND HOW IT GOES AGAINST
MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL ETHICS.
>> WELL, ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT IS THE INVOLVEMENT
AND ASSIGNMENT OF CLINICIANS.
THAT IS HEALTH CARE
PROFESSIONALS WHO TAKE CARE
OF PATIENTS TO BEHAVIERAL
SCIENCE CONSULTATION TEAMS.
THESE WERE SPECIFICALLY
CONFIGURED TEAMS TO ASSIST
IN THE INTERROGATION OF
THE-- OF THESE PRISONERS WHO
TAN
MOVEMENT THAT'S NEVER BEEN
PART OF THE ROLE AND
RESPONSIBILITY OF MILITARY
DOCTORS.
S THIS'S NEVER BEEN IN THEIR
AREA OF WORK.
ONCE THAT'S DONE, THAT
REALLY BREACHED A PARTICULAR
LINE THERE.
AND YOU FIND THEM BEING
USED, IN FACT, THEY WERE
LABELED COMBATANTS AND THEY
WERE LATER LABELED AS SAFETY
OFFICERS.
AND THEY WERE NOT WORKING AS
CLINICIANS.
SO THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT.
>> LET ME ASK LEE CASEY FOR
A RESPONSE.
>> WELL, I THINK MAYBE
THAT'S THE ANSWER.
THEY WERE NOT ACTING AS
CLINICIANS.
THEY WERE ACTING EFFECTIVELY
AS I SUPPOSE YOU COULD SAY
CONSULTANTSES TO THE
GOVERNMENT TO HELP THEM
DESIGN INTERROGATION
STRATEGIES THAT WOULD BE
EFFECTIVE WITH PARTICULAR
INDIVIDUALS.
>> WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE
ROLE OF MEDICAL PERSONNEL IN
SITUATIONS LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE
TWO ROLES.
FIRST OF ALL, OBVIOUSLY, THE
UNITED STATES HAS A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN CUSTODY.
THAT MEANS WE HAVE AN
OIGATBLION TO THOSE PEOPLE
TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR HEALTH,
THEIR BASIC WELL-BEING, AND
THAT INVOLVES OBVIOUSLY
MEDICAL CARE.
IN ADDITION, OF COURSE, WHEN
YOU'RE PUTTING TOGETHER AN
INTERROGATION STRATEGY OR
ASSESSING A PARTICULAR
INDIVIDUAL, THE ASSISTANCE
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
PROFESSIONALS, PSYCHIATRISTS
AND PSYCHOLOGISTS WOULD BE
INVALUABLE AND IT MAY NOT
HAVE BEEN DONE BEFORE.
BUT THEN THIS IS THE KIND OF
WAR WE'VE NEVER REALLY
FOUGHT BEFORE.
>> WELL,AT'S-- DOES THAT
FIT YOUR DEFINITION OF THE
ROLE OF MEDICAL PERSON
SNELL.
>> NO, IT DOESN'T.
AND MOST MEDICAL, IF NOT ALL
MEDICAL PERSONNEL WHO ARE
CLINICIANS AREN'T TRAINED TO
DO THESE KINDS OF
ASSESSMENTS AND TRAINED TO
WORK WITH INTERROGATIONS.
THERE ARE VERY GOOD
PROFESSIONAL GROUPS.
THE FBI IS EXCELLENT.
THEY HAVE PEOPLE THAT THAT
IS ALL THEY DO.
THEY DO THAT ALL THE TIME.
THEY HAVE GREAT EXPERIENCE
AND THEY KNOW HOW TO CONDUCT
INTERROGATIONS.
BUT YOU DON'T BRING
PRACTITIONERS, PEOPLE WHO
TREAT PATIENTS INTO THIS
ARENA, PARTICULARLY SINCE
MORE OFTEN THAN NOT THEY'RE
YOUNG DOCTORS, JUST OUT OF
TRAINING.
AND IT'S NOT AT ALL UP TO
THAT POINT WHAT THEY HAVE
HAD AS PART OF THEIR
EXPERIENCE.
>> WALT, YOUR ANSWER.
>> WELL, I THINK IF THE
PROBLEM IS THAT THEY ARE NOT
THAT EXPERIENCED, THEN
PERHAPS WE SHOULD BE LOOKING
OR THE MILITARY SHOULD BE
LOOKING FOR MORE EXPERIENCED
PRACTITIONERS TO BE PART OF
THIS.
BUT I THINK IN TERMS OF THE
OVERALL USE OF MEDICAL
PROFESSIONALS, CERTAINLY
THERE'S NOTHING LEGALLY
PROBLEMATIC WITH THAT.
WHETHER THERE IS AN ETHICAL
PROBLEM FOR THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION IS SOMETHING
OBVIOUSLY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSIONS IS GOING TO NEED
TO WRESTLE WITH.
>> IS THIS ABOUT THE
POLICIES, IS THIS ABOUT THE
MEDICAL PRACTICE OR IS THIS
ABOUT THE POLICIES OF THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT AND
INTELLIGENCE.
>> THAT IS HOW DOES
IT-- IT'S CLEARLY ABOUT
ENHANCED INTERROGATION
VERSUS TORTURE, THE DEBATE
THAT WE'VE HAD IN THIS
COUNTRY FOR A NUMBER OF
YEARS.
>> RIGHT.
SO IT'S ABOUT THE POLICIES.
AND ABOUT ENHANCED
INTERROGATIONS.
AND THE INVOLVEMENT OF
CLINICIANS IN THOSE, THE
PRACTICES AND WE ALL
ADAMANTLY OPPOSE TORTURE AND
ABUSIVE TREATMENT OF
DETAINEES.
THE PRACTICE ISSUE ALSO
COMES INTO PLAY.
BECAUSE TAKING A YOUNG
PRACTITIONER AND THEN
PUTTING THEM IN A SITUATION
WHERE THEY'RE NOT ACTING AS
A DOCTOR AND THEN EXPECTING
THEM AT ANOTHER POINT TO PUT
THAT ASIDE IS REALLY
IMPRACTICAL.
YOU KNOW, THAT DOCTORS WE,
IN THE MILITARY SUBSCRIBE TO
A ROLE, IN FACT ALL THE
PROFESSIONALS, ALL THE
VARIOUS BRANCHES, WE
IDENTIFY WITH OUR BRANCH,
WITH OUR PROFESSIONAL
TRAINING.
AND IT'S THAT THAT WE USE TO
DO OUR JOB THE BEST THAT WE
CAN AND TO ACCOMPLISH THE
MISSION.
>> AND WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE
DOCTORS DO WHEN PUT IN THESE
SITUATIONS?
>> I HAVE THEM REFUSED.
IT CLEARLY VIOLATES OUR
ETHICAL PRINCIPLESES.
IF CLEARLY VIOLATES THE
PRINCIPLES OF DO NO HARM.
AND I THINK THAT THEY WOULD
BE SUPPORTED, PARTICULARLY
BY THESE KINDS OF DOCTORS
AND OTHER EXPERTS ON THIS
PANEL, THAT THEY SHOULD NOT
BE INVOLVED IN THIS.
>> CAN DOCTORS REFUSE SHOULD
THEY REFUSE.
>> I THINK IT'S MORE
COMPLICATED THAN4S!AT IN THE
SENSE OF WHEN YOU SAY DO NO
HARM.
IT MAY WELL BE THAT HAVING A
PHYSICIAN INVOLVED IS THE
VERY THING THAT YOU NEED SO
THAT YOU DO  DO LARM.
WHETHER A DOCTOR CAN REFUSE
OR NOT, OBVIOUSLY A DOCTOR
IN PRIVATE PRACTICE OR
CONTRACTOR CLEARLY CAN,
MILITARY DOCTORS, OF COURSE
T IS MORE COMPLICATED.
THEY ARE IN THE MILITARY.
THEY, OF COURSE CAN REFUSE
UNLAWFUL ORDERS.
BUT WHAT IS AND ISN'T A
LAWFUL ORDER, OBVIOUSLY, ASK
SOMETHING THAT IS OFTEN NOT
CLEAR, ESPECIALLY IN AREAS
LIKE THIS WHERE WE HAVE OVER
THE LAST TEN YEARS BASICALLY
BEEN LEARNING AS WE GO
ALONG.
>> LET ME ASK YOU BRIEFLY
WHAT IS YOUR ANSWER TO MY
BROADER QUESTION ABOUT HOW
THIS FITS INTO THE LARGER
DEBATE HERE.
>> I THINK THIS IS VERY MUCH
ABOUT THE POLICIES.
I MEAN I-- I CERTAINLY
BELIEVE THE OPEN SOCIETY IS
VERY MUCH, HAS BEEN ONE OF
THE GREAT OPPONENTS OF NOT
JUST ENHANCED INTERROGATIONS
BUT PRETTY OF ALL OF THE
INTERROGATIONS THAT HAVE
GONE ON AT GUANTANAMO AND
GUANTANAMO ITSELF.
BUT THE TRUTH IS IF ALL THE
PHYSICIANS WERE REMOVED,
INTERROGATION WAS NOT STOP.
THE UNITED STATES IS AT WAR.
IT HAS A RIGHT TO
INTERROGATE.
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IS THE
INTERROGATIONS WOULD BE LESS
SAFE FOR EVERYBODY.
>> ALL RIGHT, WE DO HAVE TO
LEAVE IT THERE.
STEPHEN XENAKIS, L CASEEEY,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
TROVE OF SOME 1,500 WORKS OF
MODERNIST ART FOUND IN A MUNICH
APARTMENT.
THE MASTERPIECES HAD BEEN
ACQUIRED BY THE NAZIS DURING THE
SECOND WORLD WAR AND REMAINED
HIDDEN FOR SOME 70 YEARS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM CORDELIA
LYNCH OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> MAT IS, CHAGGAL, THE
ARTWORK ALLEGEDLY LOOTED BY
THE NAZIS, THEY WERE FOUND
MORE THAN TWO YEARS AGO BUT
WERE KEPT SECRET AND WE
STILL CAN'T SEE THEM.
SOME EXPERTS SAY IT'S ONLY
THE TIP OF THE ICEBERG.
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
ARTWORKS THAT YOU CAN BUY
WITHOUT ANY HISTORY OF
OWNERSHIP.
YOU CAN SELL THEM WITHOUT
ANY HISTORY OF OWNERSHIP.
PEOPLE ARE PREPARED TO BUY,
AND IF THEY ARE PROBLEM
ABTIC THEY CAN GET SOLD
PRIVATELY.
>> THE GRAND WAS FOUND IN
THIS FLAT IN MUNICH,
SURROUNDED BY CLUTTER.
AND IT WAS ALL BY CHANCE.
TAX OFFICIALS CAME HERE TO
SPEAK TO CORNELIUS GURLET,
THE RECLUSIVE ART DEALER
HELD BRANDT GIRLET, IN
CHARGE OF CHREBLINGTING
SO-CALLED DEAGAIN RAT MODERN
ART IN THE RUN-UP TO THE
SECOND WORLD WAR, SEIZED
FROM JEWS, OR REMOVED FROM
GALLERIES BUT IT APPEARS HE
LEFT SOME OF THEM TO HIS
SON.
HERE AT THE GALLERY IN
LONDON, THERE ARE EXAMPLES
OF THE TYPE OF PIECES HITLER
SO LOATHED.
>> HE TENDED TO FOCUS ON THE
STELLAR ARTISTS, BY CASEY,
CHAGGAL, MAT EASE BUT THEN
THERE WAS A WHOLE LOWER
ECHELON OF PERHAPS GERMAN
ARTISTS WHO WERE DECRIED AS
DEAGAIN RAT, AND FOR EXAMPLE
HERE WE HAVE HANS, AN
EXTREMLY SUCCESSFUL PAINTER.
>> IT REFLECTS MODERNISM,
ANTI-GERMAN, ANTI-PAT REE
OTIC SO YOU WERE CUTTING OUT
A WHOLE SWATHE OF WONDERFUL
PROGRESSIVE ART.
>> HITLER FILLED CIVIC
BUIINGSLD WITH LESSONS OF
WHAT NOT TO LIKE.
HE SEIZED THOUSANDS OF THOSE
WORKS THAT DIDN'T CONFORM TO
HIS ROMANTIC VISION OF
GERMANY.
MANY REMAIN HIDDEN OR
HARBORED IN HOMES AND
INSTITUTIONS.
IT'S CLAIMED THE LION TAPER
BY PAINTER MAX BECKMAN IS
ONE OF THE PAINTINGS HE HAS
ALREADY SOLD.
>> THERE WILL NO DOUBT NOW
BE A RUSH OF CLAIMS ON THE
COLLECTION.
BUT THE PICTURE IS LACKING A
LOT OF DETAIL AND GALLERIES
AND MUSEUMS ACROSS THE WORLD
ARE BUSY TRYING TO JOIN UP.
>> UNLIKE MORE CONTEMPORARY
ART, MANY PIECES FROM THE
1930s AND 40s ARE NOT
REGISTERED.
AND FOR FAMILIES FIGHTING TO
RECLAIM THE PRODUCTS OF A
LOST GENERATION IS A
STRUGGLE DESPITE THE DEEPLY
DUBIOUS WAYS THEY WERE
ACQUIRED.
>> WE HAVE HAD ONE OR TWO
ISSUES OVER THE LAST TEN
YEARS.
SOME OF WHICH ARE STILL
UNRESOLVED, UNFORTUNATELY.
THE FURTHER BACK YOU GO THE
MORE DIFFICULT IT IS TO FIND
COMPAQ PROVENANCES UNBROKE
FRIEND THE 16th, 17th, 18th
CENTURY, OFTEN YOU WILL HAVE
PREV NANCES BUT WITH GAPS IN
BETWEENMENT AND IN THE PAST
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
CONSIDERED PERFECTLY OKAY.
NOW IF THERE IS GAPS ARE
BETWEEN THE MID 1930s AND
THE LATE 1940s, THEN
OBVIOUSLY IT'S CAUSE FOR
CONCERN.
>> EVERY PAINTING IS A STORY
OF A FAMILY.
AND THAT'S WHY IT'S SO
IMPORTANT FOR THE FAMILY TO
HAVE THEM BACK BECAUSE THEY
ARE PART OF THEIR OWN
HISTORY.
AND THEY REFLECT ALSO THE
TASTE OF THE PERSONALITY OF
THE PERSON WHO IT BELONGED.
AND OFTEN THEY WERE RIPPED
AWAY, THOSE LIVES WERE
DESTROYED OR UTTERLY
TRANSFORMED SO TO HAVE THEM
BACK IS A LINK WITH THAT
PAST THAT WAS TAKEN AWAY.
>> AND WHO KNOWS WHAT OTHER
UNUNWRITTEN HISTORIES STILL
REMAIN UNSEEN BEHIND CLOSED
DOORS.
>> AGAIN ITS MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A BIG-NAME WALL STREET HEDGE
FUND-- S.A.C. CAPITAL ADVISORS--
AGREED TO PLEAD GUILTY AND PAY A
RECORD $1.8 BILLION DOLLARS FOR
INSIDER TRADING.
EGYPT'S DEPOSED PRESIDENT
MOHAMMED MORSI WENT ON TRIAL FOR
INCITING THE KILLING OF
PROTESTERS.
HE INSISTED HE'S STILL THE
COUNTRY'S LEGITIMATE LEADER.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, MORE ON OUR MINIMUM WAGE
STORY.
DISCOVER WHAT THE MINIMUM
LIVABLE WAGE IS IN YOUR AREA,
AND WATCH PAUL SOLMAN'S
INTERVIEW WITH THE CREATOR OF
THE SELF-SUFFICIENCY STANDARD.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
CASE OF THE SCORNED WOMAN WHO
TRIED TO POISON HER HUSBAND'S
LOVER IN A CASE THAT ACTUALLY
REACHED THE SUPREME COURT.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.